All right. Is this on you hear me? You're doing sums up. All right, so like to see all right. Thank you. So, my name is James Megan's I work in the distributor system over Microsoft research a moment in today. I'm going to describe you some of my thoughts on computers were computer. It comes from working. Right. Now we're going to use going just various permutations of the work computer is an action verb office building. My wisdom is sophisticated cultural artifact that is timeless more than we've analyzed waiting on the news. I encourage you to sit back and accept my words and critically or something watch over your life of a streaming $3. Look at that really. Well. I mean seriously conveying information is a good one and was you know, see what goes what the right of the security goes. I don't really know if it's a word cloud moving all the one things and I'm going to discuss computer security myself Jason Higgins. I'm interesting to talk about it off.
There's so many it's a word cloud. I know there was someone right now just high-five then maybe I'll hug them later. Every season wasn't as a good thing to do and where I continue let me just say that in this talk represent the opinions of myself. Not necessarily Microsoft. Now. I'm going to tell you the truth today that may shock you that may Amaze you that may force you to reconsider their very Inception of reality. I am currently able to request to save the world. So in this respect, I'm kind of like Gandalf when I was skinnier. I'm not worrying wizard's hat. I am black as well. No, there are very few people of color in Lords of the ring off and everything was resolved. I'm not hearing discuss racial inequality and one of the day and actually talk about technology. Like I said, the things that I'm saying right now represents being honest with ourselves knowing between Snapchat or whatever it is. They can't do these days and say that I'm making these crazy statements and Microsoft. Now, that means that everything that I'm going to tell you today is a hundred off.
Really hungry. So even though this pompous title appears our sadness. I'm here the real title of this talk is I am infallible. In fact that created a Mazda with with that title. If it were lower back pain to Thursday, we close in the lower back to the upper back and push that you want that tattoo in Venice. So people can read it. That's why I got the tattoo. Anyway moving on Thursday and the things that I studied as a researcher in Microsoft so my days and nights are filled with diagrams and look like those their clients and their servers trying to send messages to each other in a frantic efforts to make forward progress. Now, of course, most of these messages get lost because God hates us, but we still hasn't thrown out criticism work because life is unfair. So I didn't know which is the same or message log.
Things work out better with the new messages. It usually doesn't but oh well, so I first heard about Asher sisters in 2004 when I was a grad student. This is what I read that original Mac or newspaper coming off Google Now for a lot of people reading a paper was like receiving Knowledge from an alien races and television vastly surpassed our own right with the thing about how our news is that at its core mapreduce a symbol that came with that they were basically seduced you with its architecture for Surety commutation. It was almost like Antonio Banderas me tell you like to do is off and the volume in my love. You were down. Your computation is ready to run from thousands of American entry level jobs. And that was like very exciting like ten years ago. But so now it's 2014. So I propose let's just stop calling me about that for news and resuming the entire software 7 a.m.
Not bad. I just don't want to hear about it anymore. Cuz like I didn't get a matter you gotta reduce her. You got a bunch of documents with words in them and you want to use them a producer to perform warning house over all the documents example, like is that I am going to convince young people. The cloud computing is the future. It's like engineering the cell, you know know what you can do with the whole Warehouse full the machines. You can use going to count work off last name is I never heard my well maybe I didn't know that warehouse was what Shopkin one of the things a day off every little thing you do in that job.
Wow, so you can build social brass and span Nations and connect people across time and space. So the only problem with the social networking stuff is that I hate most. I'm going to page you should I knew less about the I don't want to see them in real life. So there's no reason I want their idiocy transmitted to meet electronic or whenever I think the thing with the hundred percent accuracy what page are doing, they're making a series of obvious mistakes that I would not have made the only thing that already know because I believe in myself and I feel pretty good about it off. So at a high level there's basically two kinds of people who talk about the cloud people who have actually built and implemented cloud services and of okay now people in other categories of making me happy about the cloud because they don't really know what happens inside of the cloud from an outside like have one time. Do you see millions and availability running around holding hands? There's no big job.
In the network and if you mean that says more programming more than by golly you're going to get those cords because performance isolation is a solved problem right now. That would be what you think I should never actually use the cloud before. However, if you have these the cloud if you build the cloud service into my machines are failing constantly whenever you try to get you off a single eye out in any disk drive. You'll find the drive to you as a Wyndham any good Julian I literally was going to you right and eighty million is actually a real number that was in vain describe cloud-scale. I only have a problem with your royalty it took like any kazillion seconds. I hate myself and I want to. So why videos over Ginny, you know, all you forgetting off as a lady's don't necessarily guarantee me a give you my with service. So here's what he has a lady receives. Okay, gigantic fifteen standard deviation oscillations around the average birth.
Always like how much networking bandwidth application or seeing it will receive no bandwidth or all the bad wolf in the universe facts. If you work in the cloud industry stopped giving interviews and news reporters. Okay, you did you make it sound like working in the cloud is fun. And that is actually not true at all. You know, if you want to know the ignition the pain go to a meeting and mushroom cloud Engineers are trying to figure out why the availability don't just went down so three people come in and use the network as your eyes and be like, hey just FYI. Our babysitter has turned into a black jacket. No big deal always go reorder escalated to mention that we don't respond to your request at all. And you're refusing to run your hands because you can't run the inside of a black hole Ki relativistic effects. So they gave me a part of this whole thing and then the internal Network lady goes in and she's like seeing don't even go there. We still have our cover from the time. He messes the pgp tables and we still off.
It was well Mercer can't remember Edibles website and they didn't even ask me why I gave 3 months that I love reading and he said well, why is there traffic on the website and I said maybe you should talk to someone about it was lost in the meeting. He's like Fiber One. Hope everyone's doing well. I just want to know I'm rolling a new OS upgrade across the babysitter and took the war. They're like, why would you ever loved anything ever other than anybody are Ravines are going to be rebooting for decades off. I think they'd require more often than just a cycle of violence and poverty operation guys, like well if we known update off the bars and you're going to come in and there's even more like the viruses are already there the viruses they they're not ruining their about the customer.
Well, if you actually look at how the cloud works, it's crazy train was in the heavy metal building Europe backpack find yourself, you know vaccine and so one of the reason I'm actually excited to be at Monta Ramen because you both directions trying to measure things and understand what's going on in the world. So here's my question about the cloud off my level. Like literally, why doesn't like from Germany requires a huge problem. I really want to know when the last figure said you actually got a lot of good jobs out there, but it's really in the analysis that is super super important. Right? I've got another massive pain connectivity to give my grandchildren's grandchildren. Okay, but actually want to know why things are going down. So what do we have right now basically have this thing. It's like an old timing that break. It's got these big dragon sitting in the middle and it's like command me make a move right like an attic. So my point is that called monitoring is dead.
Portable now that being said if we can be friends, I feel like I'm friends with all of you. I don't think the power will actually ever work. I think it's too big and too complicated when people understand however, that's okay. What I'm telling you is actually a message of hope you're not making it impossible consistency availability and participate in the same time, but maybe if you only want suck some of the time you only have this your psychiatrist half as much actually better than before asking fewer things from life is a very powerful strategy when filming at a certain hour or so, for example, what's that you're angry because people told you to move your email servers to the cloud and they moved in the cloud and then an email within the cloud went down and your provider and telling you what happened was in the solution is easy. You want to use email lists more time with your friends who know how to play the guitar. The universe is doing you a favor. It's really quickly turned off.
What time is it? You're taking a test in a maximum online course in the movie A Star is more important and you can't log back in to finish your test. It's not a problem. Just take the test later. You're only degree will be just took off some reason my bag, you know the military life. So let's get started. You know, I mean major what I'm trying to say is I drew Assistance or harm but if you're willing off the notion of fact, we can actually do some free money. So we're learning things like Tuesdays we met and raise your clothing and stuff like that. You know, we think about system design logging and monitoring and without the way many months actually building scalable serves as the performer usually will in are available most of the time so I pointed that not everything is hopeless only most things are homeless and there are some, you know best practice for your alignment now, of course off
A lot of people don't actually want to study some of these classic things as mentioned. They just want to build our social networking ads and let your Facebook your Instagram line or whatever it is. It's valued of working billion dollars within two days off to me that they basically want the best solution now, they just want to build something. You don't want to cash out or cocaine racing boats in the middle of the night we made and we miss not application. What's the news Cloud story? They often turns into a single solution. Now, we don't know. Okay, they want to encourage payoff. They want people to abandon their cars on the freeway Winery through the great things about consequences repercussions. Now, I kind of understand the perspective. I mean, nobody wants to read a paper about visiting the bulb or how to reduce good long outage understand why failures happen is boring a student. However, these consistent to go to malls important these diagnostic infrastructures are important. You can't just ignore them.
Right completely, but some of these no single people you said they're like being there like, you know, maybe when you build your system, it will be correct the first time off and they want to constrain your freedom. I don't blame them rice choose their own destiny and no conflicts, but I am not saying that almost equal people are bad. Now we've got there is no single definition for nosql. It means different things to different people. However, there are off.
A lot of people to interpret no single doing this you can have you read the I'd just flying around during the random order and then we'll eventually work out before they won't work out but that's fine because I'm not actually a good attitude to have here's a big. Hey, once again Circle just going to tell you a secret. Okay, when you lose it a politicians and business leaders would always say things like we need more scientists. We need more Engineers. We need more people to go to the computer scientist scientist. However, the reality is not that many more programmers American Ninja new programs. Okay. I need people all the time with dumb ideas. But hey, I will make it have the combined online Maps decided the big. They don't have a stock market and I hope you fail a lot of these developers are not involved in technology package.
Future role in like painting was the future maybe you often paint and then read the rest of us alone. Right what I'm saying? The Computing industry needs to be seriously Thursday 7th, right. So why are we encouraging people to build a stupid ass? It's like I'm pretty sure we haven't solved cancer yet. Let's knock that out. First thing I'm saying then we can work on them and allowing me to detect which pairs of twins are in my area and then I can text messages one of them in the news my camera brother take a picture of the reaction and the other one back off. I don't think we really know Angel investment. So you're definitely one that kind of stuff. I hope you'll be home for maybe like rack report. I mean like Investments and Mondays when you went in the Bible and nobody would talk to them like you can talk to you but you know, you want to be very happy birthday.
So the computer and everything once again serious about building request Cloud infrastructure needs to be serious about building modern infrastructure means off the doctor. Now, here's the other thing that we need to be serious about it secure now a couple months ago actually wrote an essay about security and threatens. And so I proposed in the office, you know, there's only one threat model that you need to worry about this threat model is called massage or not. So basically they're being they're being attacked by the Mossad or you're not sure whether or not by the way is where you want to be really strong password, but don't live on has really relaxed and we should basically but now on the other hand if you are being attacked by the Assad, there are no turn off.
And you're gonna die, you know whether you will be in to our website have all kinds of things you even have they found something. You don't have a satellite. I think they have knowledge dropping out of helicopter. Even your own frisbee golf club and like night vision goggles. They had guns that came around the corner what images and stuff after like one on Twitter and said this guy's name James made minimum wage. I think all these security issues are very interesting particularly in light of all the stuff that happened it would snow dead.
Now currently making I find it shocking than anyone was surprised with the NSA was doing right but apparently what I learned in this whole thing is that here's the people's mental model for the NSA was right off and get gas. This is ruined moral and religious and they send the email to the fiber optic cable in the house leader says, why would it be a gentleman as a fiber optic cable just filled information. What would be inside? I feel like to know they'll be careful boys. Let's not touch the cable directly or off with a day anyway, but just build a campfire and will be the cable or just use our imaginations. I think we all go through alone. It'll be fun and educational horse knocked off. Of course. This isn't that they don't mean we already knew the CIA was doing wacky things like trying to kill cash for the poison cigarette and he does the NSA has these special underground under see some reason slice cable off.
And we know the door was working on an exoskeleton and that makes so sealed is we do Terminator and watch movies or documentaries. And so what I'm trying to say that the government is a much stronger a disaster the people seem to understand a lot of people the Computing industry has anything to somehow, you know, clever use of cryptography can protect us from an overbearing government. This is life saying if you want a gun then you and your ragtag green gun owners can prevent a government attack in the property. So to be clear that's not how the government's going to come at you off going to engage you in close combat must get battle with Iraq is near Civil War re-enactor. What was going to attack you with Navy SEAL and how long this'll because they have that stuff off because normally in the world building security the government is not going to go sit in Boy Scouts trying to guess your password instead of Governors going to come at you by controlling all the infrastructure.
You know and love in this world for example housing address the hardware that you use to run tour or paging me or whatever technical do that. You think's going to protect your freedom Housing Trust the networks across all of your machines on the machines. Do you know literally all the hardware and software is on your smartphone if the answer is know how like our dog is going to help so basically what I'm saying is if rolling in the office worried about security, here's your challenge, how do we defend against the government? And the only things that we can trust are some stones and a pencil and a big dryly that I found in my driveway off today with that. I personally don't know maybe you do so think about it. So there's another problem with the security stuff right over to the government. They can manipulate your hardware near Chicago or networking ways. You can build whenever the tech however to do that stuff. It will require a lot of resources. However, there are a lot of really easy attacks that are super successful in practice and required may be wrong.
But not so many of you real life example. Okay about four times a year the following we have to be on Facebook. Okay. I'm on Facebook as my profile is like I check all my friends are doing now, by the way, they would drill down here off of his friends pretty big number not trying to brag around the world pretty popular band members actually going up since I made that slide about 6:47 something like that with anyone doing that information when you will so I go to Facebook did I see that new friends like so some new person wants to be my friend. That's awesome. So I click on the learning and look at my profile and I would be my friend so believe me better now according to the internet. Mary wants to be my friend and to be frank. I'm not surprised. You know. That's right Peter Henry. Why wouldn't you want to be my friend? I'm fantastic. Now the only problem then I'm not actually sure you I know so maybe I did though. I'm an optimist. So what time?
And remains like looking at profiles what I find out. So here's your education Central University. Another city or school-related is Central to everything that's off. I had educated friends. So, you know, what's your job? Okay. Am I still doing that and giving me a language but you know what in this economy if you have a job because you you hear is when God bless. So how about marriages music just wall but actually pretty insightful right? We're all struggling with these big questions, like, you know made us are we alone in the universe will be able to walk me out loud really puts things in perspective, I think.
So I think to myself Giorno very young person that I met in real life. The answer is of course, it's exactly willing to possible. I think that I would remember if I were going to party and hanging out essentially University which isn't even real that's like saying you would just go in guardian or something like that. So it's possible that I know very real life when I'm at home. I don't know. I'm dumb What made me mad cow disease and we're just trying to help them like that movie Total Recall and we had all these things like we're just being friendly cab o San Lucas and they were built with my kid was amazing. I was but I didn't know how long I was nursing her back to health and she's saying change it was amazing. We're best friend that has me to be your friend on Facebook and we'll get all your private personal information. I already know what your good friend. I just wanted to see it in a browser-based format through Thurs.
Okay. So the man I just stupid stupid man. That's what I'm thinking. Now. Of course. Here's what we know young exciting new boss. Mary is obviously there's like a hundred different genes in a hundred different thoughts at least 5 during cooking stuff and I'm actually doing pretty well the way I have a pretty large amount of common sense. So 5 under Jackson equipment on this off random guy named Todd, like seventy three times out of a hundred and I put it on this thing that really big problem. So here's the most important role in security research less than women ain't working out for me or two bills if you tolerate birth
Minutes, we had a good one, you know, we tried our best and that's actually not very many of us would not run over there. I don't know what it is. But I feel that's the description that recent news when you're sitting around on Mount Olympus like hanging out with the other guys talking about the whole man thing like, you know, the thing that would come up and you say hey, he's his how's that whole man project coming along and Susan just saying it's shake his head and say it is what it is Pokemon selfish and quickly. So, how may I help with this? I'm not really sure maybe you can develop some type of measurement and off like that weird public, you know, so I don't know remember but I think that's a hold of us. I'm involved in home.
So in conclusion, what do we learn today? We've actually learned quite a lot is one of the other jobs. Where is the patron saint of cloud computing and we've learned that vein is tired of telling people how long will tell him which there isn't can read and write to we weren't that we actually fewer programmers. Not more. We will the government is not actually going to engage in a musket battle whether you and we're going this guy off and really wants to be your friend. So, please take my wisdom. Maybe your own. I thank you for your time. I welcome any questions.
And and off. I'm just going my friend is kind of like getting a gun in New Jersey. There's background checks required off living brought the process. So I heard you submit that request typically do is I will wait two to three days to show that I'm not desperate and you think there's anything wrong. I heard you the United me online. And anyway, I loved judging people. So we're pretty much open up your entire role Wilder mean, you know, post sarcastic things in your wall. Enjoy bring us together.

