All right, so I'm going to have to improvise a little bit. I did not realize that I would be giving this presentation with my laptop a top some type of soviet-era box. So this is a very exciting start to everything. So hello off once and my name is James. I am a professor at Harvard. And today I'm going to discuss dreams and why they fail we're going to be going to the left in this talk. We're going to the left. I want to be clear about them. There's not going to be a puppet show. There's not going to be a door prize. There's just going to be more left. Okay, so I want to be honest about that. I realize that from your perspective I'm motioning right? That's okay. This is all part of the theater wage suspend the disbelief. Okay. So let me give you my standard disclaimer. However, the opinions that I express in this talk on my own I represent no one else but myself and of course little Gary Martinez home. I met Gary at the airport. His flight had been delayed by 37 hours tears were streaming down a little Gary Martinez face. I said, what can I do?
Little man to make it better and he said as he wiped off the tears, I want you to give a sarcastic talk about technology and I said Gary I can do that for you. I can do that for you. So let's dedicate this talk to poor little Gary Martinez who's flight has now been delayed for an unprecedented 73 hours.
 So in my opinion, the biggest challenge of system administration is that it's very difficult to explain your life to other people who don't administer machines. I mean if you're a firefighter or a beekeeper or a pole put your life has rules and concrete goals. You want to put out the fire. You don't want to get eaten by bees. You want to make all the words the end of your sentences rhyme because that's what a point is, right. So they're very simple things right? But when you do system administration, it's like a Jean Claude Von Dom movie from the eighties. The Only Rule is that there are no rules right and so forth. That's a problem because when we wake up in the morning, we know that we're just going to be assaulted by an uncaring Universe. We know that any computational device can be ruined and so you might be thinking even in Iraq because in the answer is yes, you can Fubar an abacus, okay?
 These are the things that we have to deal with on a daily basis. And if you're not living in this world, it can be very difficult to understand what's going on in that world. So for example, if your assistant menu spend a lot of time looking at log files and outputs and things like this trying to figure out why things are broken. So like you wake up one day and you just want to install a package on your machine seems like a very reasonable thing to ask. So your fire up your command shell you type rpmbuild then what happens? Oh my God. Okay. So fortify Source requires the link there's an underscore personality here. There's a bogus date in the build error in the email addresses are Andre the Giant Bill Clinton and Gumby is this some type of international conspiracy. What's what's going on here when you read a log message like this, this is almost like getting drunk text message from a college student right where it's only composed of emojis. I mean essentially this month
 Message could not have been more useless if it had just said football werewolf palm tree palm tree palm tree off, right?
 That's the exact same amount of information content that was actually contained in the rear error message, right, but how can you explain this tragedy to someone who is not deeply steeped in our culture? It's a big problem. But of course we are forced to do this whenever one of our co-workers stop by our little cubicles. So for example, you'll be working hard, right? You'll be in The Matrix and then your office make Todd welcome by you know, say hey, I just got back from a trapeze you do you want to see a picture and he's actually showing you the picture at the same time. He's asking if you want to see the picture Okay, so this picture is not a part of your life narrative now. It's in your quilt. It's not getting out of there. Right? And so you look at this picture and you think I have seen this picture twenty-seven million times. Okay, stop pretending that you discovered Machu Picchu you did not Discover. It was there has been discovered many many years ago what I want to do now if I don't want to draw
 This picture for memory which I could clearly do is I want to go to Machu Picchu then I want to burn it down because nobody has that picture actually that would be an original picture of math. She would of course we cannot do this type of thing because Society frowns upon vigilante justice. So you just sit there and wait for Todd to admit his twenty-minute story about things that everyone else the whole world is done and then at some point Todd will say well, what are you working on and most of the time you're able to contain the anger but sometimes you just flip out you just say listen Todd, I live in a world of blood and fire that you will never understand. Okay every day in my life is a battle against hieroglyphics that have the power to create and Destroy. Okay. Do you know what these characters called that character is called a do you know what that character is called that character is called Bing. Okay, and that character is called a single backslash has made of two back slash.
 And do you know what that character is called that character is called. I don't like the current character. I need to go back one character so I can figure out what to do next with all these characters that are in my life. Okay, Joe. I live in a world filled with cryptic rooms that you can never understand. Okay, all of my numbers have choices in them every single one. It's like a little bunch of Confederate flags staring me in the face.
 I know that you say it's about hex right? It's not about the Civil War. Stop reading those textbooks from Texas. This is the world that I live in. Okay, what do you have to say about thought and Todd says palm tree palm tree palm tree.
 So anyway, so I guess the point of that story is that technology can make people get into arguments. I guess this seems like a pretty generalizable lesson at least in my life. So I get into arguments about starting all the time. So some of these startups that are coming out of the Bay Area a really pretty mind-blowing you've got startups to get your groceries for you. You've got startups to cook a meal for you and let me be clear there has never been a better time to be someone who hates doing laundry. Okay. This is a Renaissance for you. Okay, you've got laundry lock or you've got rents. You've got sudc you got installed wash. You got SF wash you've got washed up. I mean look at all these opportunities to keep your hands baby soft. Okay, it's quite amazing. Right? I mean recently. They're these Stars people can't even tell if they're real or not like a start-up that would take trash from your curb to a few feet away from where your curb is, right? This is actually a plausible thing. They could get money from the VC community. So I mean if you look at this list of services, what would you change?
 If you knew nothing about San Francisco, you would think that San Francisco is inhabited by a race of humans who only have heads. Nobody has hands or legs or any appendages to interact with the material Universe. These people are so helpless. They're basically like Charlie Brown characters, but without the bodies. Okay. They're just Charlie Brown kids. Okay little footballs inside a baby cribs just really trying to consume resources as quickly as possible. Okay, that's basically my motto for what's going on in San Francisco right now. That's right. I'm not wrong.
 I mean, it's almost like a science fiction movie. We have these very well-intentioned but deeply confused Charlie Brown heads trying to create a society which ostensibly as better for everyone but actually only helps the Charlie Brown heads, right? So it seems like there's perhaps something wrong here now fundamentally speaking one thing that's kind of weird about a lot of these Services is that they're basically built around this mob of creating a new type of poor person whose value is defined purely by the strange whims of these techno Aristocrat Charlie Brown heads, like in two years from now quote me on this you're going to be restarted pitches like this. Okay. I have a new start-up. It's called to see okay. Here's the idea. There's a lot of rich people who want more teeth in the mouth. There are a lot of poor people over here who've Got Some Teeth Now using Advanced machine-learning we decide which rich people should take which teeth from the poor people now probably the answer is going to be all the team. Okay? Probably going to be all the teeth.
 So all the teeth go over here now in exchange for giving up the teeth the poor person's going to get like $5. Okay, and that's not per tooth. Okay, that's for all the team. Okay. So you give away all your teeth to get $5. You can go get some ice cream. You can buy half of a movie ticket. You can do anything that you imagine desires as long as it fits inside a $5 size box. Okay, so that's what's going on there. So anyway, so people get excited about all these different startups, right? And so another technology that people get excited about are these these dating apps for smartphones now every day I read about some new dating app that allows you to connect with people in your Facebook Network or connect with people who you walk by on the street or connect with random people who probably have cold sores, right? I don't make the news. Okay. I just reported get some Valtrex clear that right up. Okay, but the thing is that people get excited about these dating apps like Instagram.
 Same way that we got excited about pizza parties and we were a kid, right? So, you know, we were kids we were running around on the playground setting things on fire throwing rocks at each other. There's cannibalism Judy's a growth spurt early as she's just stomping the life out of people, you know, just amazing. Everyone is having a great time. Then the teacher came out and he said everyone calmed down it's time to go back to class and you're like, whatever man we're not going to do it and you can nap them and hold them for ransom then get the money and then sell in the Pirates. Anyway just a mess with his family's head or something like this. So anyways, you're running around like a wild person and the only thing off the teacher could do to calm you down with this a kids. If you behave you can have a pizza party tomorrow and you turn everyone and say there's a pizza party at stake. It's time to get serious everyone shutting down caves Julie stop poisoning the water supply Ronald stop trying to convert Thomas to be a Scientologist maybe tomorrow. Okay. There's a pizza party on the line. I'll come down there. I'll smack you in the mouth off.
 Five years old. I talk like this. This is a pizza party. It's a game-changer. It's a game-changer. So this is what I feel like when I read some of these press releases for these dating apps people say it's going to revolutionize how we go out and how we meet people but I always wonder where people not dating before dating apps were invented like literally, how did everyone in this room get here if people were not meeting people and then doing people things right it just a dating app somehow invent dating then go backwards in time to create the human race. It's just very strange. I don't get it. So these dating apps they're entertaining they are fun, but it's not like human beings were on a trend line for extinction before tender came along. I am really doing okay. I mean the people who think that dating apps are revolutionary are similar to the people who think that Myers-Briggs tests are sort of like an unprecedented way to expose our personalities to log.
 Two people right? Like before Myers-Briggs came along to people in the Medieval Era would meet and one of them would be shy but that person couldn't say that they were an INTP and then both people would just agree to come down to the ground and die because there was no way to bridge the chasm that separated their two Souls. They couldn't do anything now, of course, this is ludicrous right? In fact the same people who think that Myers-Briggs stuff is cool are the same people who think it's reasonable to brag at a party. Yeah, I do some DJing on the weekends. I don't care that you're into Faberge eggs. I don't care. Okay, just because you have a playlist does it mean that you're a DJ? Okay, that's like saying you have some Legos now, you're Leonardo DaVinci making adventures in your dream laboratory. Okay, so you need to be serious about yourself. That's what I'm saying. Be serious. Anyways, I am digressing. I've digressed myself. My original point. Was that the online dating scene dead?
 It's absolutely ridiculous. But the thing is if you're single you gotta be in that scene, right because you're at home you're alone. It's a Saturday night, but you know, the people are swiping their claim that they're checking their unchecking. Okay, and if you're not part of that scene, this is what romance looks like these days. You're going to get left behind Okay, but what's so funny is that you get on these apps, right? Cuz everyone said hey you got to get in the scene, but anyone who is in the scene will tell you this is not the best scene, you know, you're constantly checking your phone all the time trying to figure out how to trick a stranger off the thing that you're reasonable person and your friends will ask about you like, how's the online dating going and you're like, yeah, I'm doing I'm doing okay, you know, I I mean like I knew then online dating would like home and downs, but you know, so I mean it's it's fine but you know, it's it's it's okay, but you look at those eyes.
 You look at those haunting Britney Spears eyes and you know that it's not fine. Okay, but this is what you have to do these days if you are single so, that's me off on the scene. Okay, that's why I have a rose so you can know I'm out there. I'm available to be loved. I'm available to be cherished. Let me tell you. Okay, I'm a rare desert flower waiting for someone to pour water on both routes so I can grow like a delicate Beauty. I'm like a baby bird with a broken wing gives take me into your life nurse me back to health right? I'll sing you a song romance and sunsets that never ends. I mean hand-in-hand we're going to walk along the beach. I'll show you those hidden places those Gardens of delight that Only Lovers know now, of course, I say precisely none of this in my profile, right because nobody wants to read this kind of poetry on these profiles right people only want to see your pictures. So why is that the reason is that the number one fear of Internet dating is that Thursday?
 Somehow be tricked into a first date with a goblin. Okay, everybody's worried about a goblin date. So your number one job as you are constructing an online profile page convince people that you are not a goblin. However, this is tricky because the universe only contains three good photos of you. Okay, everyone here knows that and the thing is we don't know exactly which three photos those are right. Now. Of course, there is a problem because some of these online dating apps actually require more than three photos, right? So this leaves a phenomenal that everyone who has done done online dating as well aware of like for example, someone will be looking at my profile and they'll say yeah that looks good. I like what I see their way. It looks like you've been working out cool. Jesus Christ is Krampus. It is the German demon who punishes naughty children at Christmas that is that is unfortunate right off.
 And what's unfortunate about this is that that's actually what I look like right like that. That is my steady-state like those other photos. I was showing of you that the pictures show me like those great photos. Those things were acts of God. Okay, everything was coming together. The light was perfect. My skin was clean. I wasn't sweating. It was just all the puzzle pieces fitting together so perfectly but like this photo up here. That's me, like ninety 7% of the time right and that's actually okay, I think because I think that most dudes look like this but this is why I find it so funny when like a dude is talking about a woman and he says, oh, well, she's only like a seven out of ten and it's like hey, bro, your a Krampus. Okay, you're a Krampus. Even if I accept the validity of your ranking scale like she's a seven out of ten. You're weird. Demon who licks German children. So like maybe you should stop talking so much about things that will never happen.
 You you know, so anyways, that's just me. So as I was saying I digress frequently my point is that I was talking about online dating. And so if you go out there and you do that online dating, you will actually get like a bunch of crazy experiences. So here's an experience that happens to me all the time. So I'll get an email from the dating app and it's going to say hey, I found a great match for you. So I'll go on the app and take a look up the profile that I matched with and let's say her name is Julia. I'll look at her interest. She's got all my interest hockey fights year-round Christmas trees and then I'll look at her profile text and it'll be fun loving and Charming. She's not a manic pixie dream girl, but she wants me to help her build a time machine out of blankets. That's that's great. That's what I've been looking for. And then I'll I'll look at the part of her profile that's titled wage. You know who she's looking for?
 You'll say brown eyes and I have brown eyes and she's looking for someone who's five foot eight. I'm exactly five foot eight and she's looking for men with an athletic build a slender build or a Golem Bots. I'm one of those three my luck is looking up.
 She wants a man who's interested in science fiction movies. Guess what? I love science fiction movies at this point. It seems like Julia and I are the perfect match. Let's just see the last thing that you were chairman to be if this would be suitable.
 I got so close. What is up with this? Whites-only stuff. She's like a waterfowl from the 1950s.
 When you do for you. And why is this information at the bottom of the profile instead of the top of the profile? Why do I have to scroll to there's a whole thing only discovered the in the Juliet how allergic to black people this is ridiculous. And by the way, is this the advanced machine-learning? I keep reading so much about why our magazine
 Somehow the cloud is thinking like oh yeah. James is a black guy. Let's match him up with a clan wizard. That sounds like a great idea.
 Anyways, this is the scene. Okay, this is the scene that everybody talks about. Okay, the only thing worse than this is what I go to the acceptable of nicity section and I see a bunch of stuff off. I'm like, oh this is so great. Huge list. It's like, okay Filipino. That's gray Hispanic. That's fantastic, you know Papua New guinean from the Western half of the country we need more of those people wage to file is in the filing in Mississippi that you've ever heard of in the file American is this a millennial thing. I never heard of this kind of thing, like instead of just happened as long list there. What they should do is just put a picture of me with the Ghostbusters sign through. Okay now just make it clear to me not that guy. Okay, if you were that guy then perhaps Clan wizard Julie is not one for you.
 so anyways large installation system administration, so
 What are they talking about today? So I hope that was clear one thing that I don't like about large system administration is backing up my data package. I know that there's a lot of commercial stuff out there. I can put my my data on the cloud and try to automate the whole process. But here's here's the problem right tools like GitHub and bitbucket. I feel like they're they're too impersonal aren't they don't really understand the emotional relationships that I have with my data and that's why my primary backup solution is emailing myself Thursday that are thought. Okay. This is a multi megabyte email attachment that contains some random stuff that may or may not be useful to me in the future. Okay. Now the advantage of Thursday. Tar gz is that I know exactly what's in there. It's my Thursday stop.
 This is the kind of personalized touch that I demand from my backup solution. Now, I know that a lot of you they like, you know subversion you like Mercurial stuff like that, but it's not for me right? Here's what is for me? Okay being in a cold lonely place is I try to figure out the distinction between code kind of works. And code sort of works. Said. Okay, that's how Champions spend their time. Okay, who's got all this time and effort for code dipping in source code repositories. We don't use code difficult for anything else that we love, you know, we don't take pictures of our children and say Here's what Kevin looks like at one year old. Here's what he looks like at twenty-five, but I don't do that don't div Kevin email often self multiple copies of Kevin just so you can be sure this is the strategy that seems to make sense to me, but I get it you're very modern audience. Okay, so you don't want to email stuff to yourself off.
 So I guess that means we'll have to use something like it to back up all our data now get can be very nice. Don't get me wrong. But to be clear get is like that friend of yours who every once awhile, it goes a little bit crazy at the party. Okay. So when everything is going well get is awesome. But when get goes bad get goes bad immediately. Okay, and it goes bad. Haha. Okay, and it takes her to a very very dark place. Okay, so to understand why let me show you a high-level picture of how get works.
 Yeah, is that all makes sense? Did you see how old are simple Concepts came together to form a cohesive whole well, if that didn't make sense pray tell them look at it like this get is basically a confusing movie about time travel and parallel dimensions. And then you have to put your source code in that movie. So get essentially birth is Donnie Darko as a service is a tool which allows different people to confuse each other across time and space right now the high level each developer and get is like a character in the movie and these characters working on a local view of what they think the movie Universe looks like and when each person stays in their own Universe get is glorious. Okay, but then when people start trying to send objects across universes, it becomes just a debacle just a horrible nightmare and the ohm
 Whether you can fix your code is the utter these Arcane get commands that will last chanted by Druids trying to someone back from that from Stonehenge right now. If you've ever tried to fix a broken get repo, you know exactly what I'm talking about here. So you're sitting in your computer. You're just minding your own business and then your cell phone makes that little noise right per a someone in the universe loves. So you check yourself when you got an email message there and you realize hey there it's from get. So the message says that your co-worker Anthony has pushed and changes to the repo. That's good. That's why we brought in the end. So you go to your own version of the repo you start trying to pull stuff in all of a sudden get says automatic merge failed fix the conflict and at this point everyone in your organization is thinking did the repo just break. Oh my god did the get what just happen? Right and you're just very very still when this happens. I mean literally this is the deer-in-the-headlights job.
 Hamara, you just you just if you can just stay perfectly still maybe time will go backwards and you can throw yourself phone out the window before told you that Anthony has ruined everything but it's too late. Of course, you did the pool. You tried the merge or did you who really knows if you've ever used gift from the command line? It just tells you this stuff and drops the mic and it leaves I mean, who knows what's happening? So maybe you didn't do the pole. Maybe you pull someone else this code? I it's hard to say, but you're just very still you're very still you worried that you've broken the repo wage. Obviously think I can just move to Canada. Nobody would ever find me. I would learn how to speak Navien. I would hate their food. I would live as they live. I'd I'd get a wolf I would compete in Lumberjack games. I just I gotta get out of the city. It wasn't working for me. Anyways this get repoed just the latest sign that I gotta change something. It's like a Bruce Springsteen song. Someone's gotta change, you know birth.
 Then you hear your cellphone make another little noise and you look at it. And so help you God Anthony's push another commit. This guy is stopping over your cold like Godzilla stomping over Tokyo Joe's and you feel bad for the repo. It's like one, and put that space worm in the check-offs here and you're like anyone but check off. He's so cuddly and friendly, why would you do that off and your cell phone keeps making these little noises and you know who it is. It's Anthony releasing commit after commit a waterfall of merge conflicts. And now you're angry or sad you're all of Kubler-Ross stages of grief and there's a new stage called Vengeance. But what do you do? What do you do you're alone in this world. It's all existential philosophy at this point. I mean you've been abandoned by the universe. How are you going to get that code back? So you do the only thing that you can do you call up your friend Ed?
 Who's the good master? So you say hi. I need some help with my get repo. I hear that your codes been taken.
 Yeah. Yeah, it's totally Anthony's full. He keeps on pushing these commits. Let me tell you exactly what you need to do. Your a little abrupt. I feel like maybe you should smile a little bit more. Do you want your code back that off for marketing? He has nothing to do with this. Stop choking him out. This is a little over-the-top. Yes. I want my code back. Please. Tell me what to do.
 Okay, this is exactly what you have to do. Go to the local market. You'll find an Iranian man playing guitar with no strings record the sound of the music that he's playing. Well, I mean like the guitar doesn't actually have any strings. There's not any music per se do you want your code back? Yes. Okay. Okay, I get it. I get it. Okay, excellent record the sound of the music using the following command get Ronnie musician single rebate and purse and guitar with no strings - Branch off gigs boson Dave's equals Opposite Day.
 Did you hit enter? Yeah, I hit enter. That was a mistake. I hadn't finished giving you the command.
 You need to finish it by typing check out check in hashtags for real. The Master's tools will never destroy the Master's house. So should I bring it in or now? Do you want your coat? Stop asking me if I yes assume that I want my code back then hit enter now.
 So you do with the guru says and you eventually managed to restore the reboot to a good State. Now. The next thing that you need to do is obvious, you got to go financing, right? So you go to Anthony's office anything Anthony is just straight-up chilling. Anthony is having a great old time drinking from his Juice Box listening or whatever stupid music Anthony likes to listen to Em Go. Hey Anthony. Yeah, how how's it going man? And so Anthony says great because if you're an idiot, like Anthony things are always great, right? This world is filled with beauty. You've got a juice box, you're writing thousands of lines of code that unbeknownst to you or stomping on other people's commits like Bigfoot it. Could it be better right from the perspective of Anthony.
 So you sitting Anthony. Hey, you know that commit blizzard that you just generated that Storm of the Century took me seven hours to fix I had to call Liam Neeson who I know personally and who helps me with things off and there was an Iranian guitarist. It was very confusing. Okay, you've wasted seven hours of my life. Didn't I tell you multiple times which files I was working on. So this kind of thing wouldn't happen and Anthony says and I quote Yeah. I just wanted to try something out.
 When I hear that phrase, yeah, I just wanted to try something out. I want to take myself and I want to fold myself into a paper airplane. I want to fly far far away from this world. Okay to that place where the elves go with the end of Lord of the Rings, right? I don't want to be a part of this Society anymore where you want to try something out. My code base is not a theater for your performance art. Okay, you want to try some things out go be a mine. Go. Join Cirque du Soleil be a bendable person. Okay, don't be trying to discover things about yourself in my code base cuz you didn't go to Europe and find out what you were all about. Right? So we basically say all this stuff to you to Anthony's like yeah it it is crazy. Right and you're like, oh it is crazy. Oh, it's a mismatch. This is like CSI. Let's work together to figure out who murdered the repo you are the repo you wrote of the repo owner Anthony own it.
 He just says well, I mean it's just it's just hard to say. It's just hard to say as if somehow that was an answer to the implicit question. Is it hard to say? Oh, it is hard to say, right and you say Okay anything listen, here's the new rule. Okay, you've messed up the repo. So now you have a Star Wars name. Your name is Jack's dubbo. Now. You are Jack Steve-O. Your name for an entire week and you have to wear sneakers on your head because that's the alien race that you are. Now, your name is Jeff Debo and he looks at you and he's like, but my name is is Anthony. And you say there is no Anthony here. You kill Anthony? Okay. You were charged Depot you are dancer for the Harte family you come from the planet real where nobody follows best practices predicaments. What do you think about that Jessie Boe and Jack's Debo just takes a sip his juice from that box, and he says, I guess I'm a dancer then and at this point you wish that somebody would come and just take him away. Thanks. Thank you.
