My name is James mickens and I'm here to give you a keynote speech now some of you may be unaware about what a keynote is supposed to accomplish. So here's the definition for a keynote a keynote is Faith availing tone or central theme typically one that has said are introduced at the start of a conference the central theme that I will be discussing today is computer science as in trouble. What are we doing with our lives? Get out? Okay. That's the central theme that I'll be introducing as a result after my keynote. The rest of the conference is canceled go to the aquarium. There's a Chick-fil-A nearby that was quite delicious. Just try to put together the shattered pieces of your broken life now, by the way, welcome to usenix security. It's so nice to see so many of you out there. Now. Let me tell you a completely true story that explains why I'm the right person to give this keynote. So a few weeks ago I was in San Francisco since escaping the orbit of San Francisco is the sisyphean rock that all technologists are forced to push. So I was in San Francisco at a coffee shop and I was sitting outside girl dressed in colonial Garb as one does and so I'm sitting there enjoying a book and then a magician comes up to me. Okay, so I knew that he was a magician because he said do you want to see a magic trick off? And so I said no. Thank you, sir. I'm reading a book but this magician was very very pushy. So he got right up in my face and he was like don't you believe in the power of magic? And I said, well no because the options are liars. Okay, the thing was hidden in your hand or in your sleeve you had a mirror there were two people you didn't tell anybody in half. So just leave me in peace Wizard. And by the way that last phrase leave me in peace wizard hasn't been said since the 14th century. So anyway, so this magician want to go away and the other people in the coffee shop are looking at me with this expression that says, I'm sorry that you're dealing with this Abr

So I tell this magician listen just go away and then he says if you can tell me how I do this next trick. I'm going to leave you alone. So I said okay fine fine. Let me see the trick. So we did this thing that probably many of you have seen them and showed me that he was holding one ping pong ball in his hand and then he moved his hands around then he was holding to ping pong balls and then he moved his hands around again. And then he was just holding one. And so he did the whole trick in the office. I mean, he said how to do that mortal now, he didn't explicitly say the moral part but like I know that it was there. So I told him dude I understand how this works. Okay, you have a single ping pong ball you cut in half and so when you show, you know, the fronts of the two has it looks like you have to ping pong balls, but really you move it around a little bit of sleight-of-hand. You connect them in your hand then it's like, oh you made one ping pong ball disappear off really just putting the two halves together. And so it was great because when I explain this trick to him the magician made that weird sound that magicians make when they're defeated he was like and then home

Walked away and it was so fulfilling and as he left everyone in the coffee shop was like go home magician, but I was different because I said begone magician because that's the grammatically correct way to chase a wizard out of your neighborhood. Okay. So why did I tell you that story at first glance? It might seem like it's just a light-hearted tale of wizard heckling but really what that story is about is about the value of skepticism, right? So I feel like computer scientists sort of as a whole we've forgotten some of the value of skepticism. And as a result, I feel like we're leading ourselves a stray. I feel like technology in general and computer science in particular have been hyped up to such an extreme level that we've ignored the importance not only issue of security but broader Notions of ethical Computing. So for example, have you heard about this little technology called machine learning anyone in the crowd? Well, of course you have because machine learning is like a game.


Inverse Fight Club, the first rule of machine learning Fight Club is that you must talk about Fight Club. The second rule is that let's not fight because we all just agree that m l is just so fantastic. So everybody wants to have machine learning now, we can use machine learning to analyze marketing data to build customer profiles to actually form romantic connection with other people who believe in the power of machine learning machine learning according to IBM. You can use the cognitive power of Watson to drive deeper consumer engagement new experiences and augment the management of Regulatory Compliance. That sentence is so buzzworthy. It's almost not English if we were just to add the word doubleplusgood here may have now written a sequel to the book 1984 machine learning.

It is oxygen that we all breathe or at least the oxygen that Silicon Valley is trying to force into our lungs now. Unfortunately, I'm going to argue that the increasing use of them is actually problematic from the security perspective. So what do I mean by that? Well at a high level I think that the goal of computer security is to ensure that systems do the right thing even in the presence of malicious inputs. Now achieving this goal in the context of machine learning is exceptionally challenging for two reasons. So first of all, computer scientists lack a deep mathematical understanding of how machine learning actually learns and predicts and I'll go into this a little more detail later and second many people who deploy machine learning don't actually care about the first problem. So as a result these people make a series of terrible life decisions many of which involve connecting machine learning to the internet now everyone in this room knows that the internet.

Trouble. Okay. The internet is not some kind of summer camp for Amish you okay? Here's what the internet is hacker chat rooms pictures of blobfish and worse Okay computer viruses with names like pirate Photoshop. Exe. Okay, it's very tempting to click on that. Okay, so don't do that. I heard that from a friend. Anyways, the point is that the Internet is just this call Jaron of evil, but if you know that the internet is a cauldron of evil and if you know that you don't fully understand how machine learning works. Why would you connect the two what would convince me that this is a good idea this can't possibly make things better. So to explain why this is I'm actually going to examine a machine learning and a bit more depth will take 2 minutes and just have a very quick overview of what I like to call the problem with math. So the problem with this is that like I said, a lot of people don't really understand a lot of the the math that underlies machine learning. So for example, let's consider gradient.

Let's suppose that we want to build a classifier to identify handwritten digits. So the input of that classifier will be a vector that represents the pixels and an image. So for example, imagine that we had this four by four grid of pixels here and we need to draw a gray-scale image. So we just paints a little pixels there. Just put them where we think they should go just there's no such thing as a mistake and voila now, we have some pixels now we can represent each one of those pixels as a numeric value which indicates how dark the pixel is. Okay, and then we can actually flatten that song by four grid into an array this array is going to be the thing that's going to be the input to the classifier.

So now we know how to generate the input to this classifier the output for the classifier will be a vector of 10 probabilities with each entry representing the likelihood that an image represents a particular number. So for example, given that image that we just painted a classifier might spit out probabilities like the following so like in this example, the class of fire has 92% confidence that the digits of form now, of course, we need some way to train our model now for that we can use the training set which is just input data that's already been labeled with the appropriate classifications wage. Now some of you may know the most popular testing data four-digit recognition is this thing called The Mist data set, which was created. When three explorers named Ian Carina and Christopher went to a haunted house in labeled a bunch of devil numbers from an ancient book of evil. So according to Ian this image represents a five now according to Common Sense this image represents the faith.

Sigil of I'm on Google the most detestable of the undying one's not saying that machine learning is the portal to a Demon Universe. I'm just saying that some doors are best left unopened regardless back to our classifier. So the classifier is going to take a vector of pixels in his input in the classifiers going to Output a vector of probabilities representing the likelihood of them represents the digit 0 or 1 or so on and so forth. So to build this type of output Vector, we could feed the input to in neural-net, which is basically just a network of functions that come off on the input data in various ways.

So if we look at a single neuron, then what we'll see is the neuron takes in a set of input numbers and outputs a linear combination of the inputs that output is modulated by some function f and that function f is often chosen to be a nonlinear function. So for example, ask might be the hyperbolic tangent function which takes a real number in his input and then Maps it to this sort of squished range -1 to 1. So the purpose of introducing that nonlinear function is that it allows the neural net to actually learn non-linear relationships between the input data and output of data in this ability is important because in real life classifications often times and nonlinear task so great. That's what in Iran looks like but how are we going to pick the waits for the neural net? Well, this is what training is going to do. Okay, so during training we try to find the assignment of Weights that minimizes the classification error of the neural net. I know some of this math might seem a little bit tedious, but I've got to build things up before I can't are dead.

Down so roughly speaking. The purpose of the training is that we want to find out the assignment of Weights that minimizes the differences between the classifications of the neural in the classifications of some Oracle. So for example, if we have a classifier that only has two weights, we can depict all the possible weight assignments in an XY plane for Chicago assignment of Weights. We can then use the Z access to show the classification error that the neural net produces for that particular assignment of Weights. The error then is going to be the difference. Like I said what the classification of the neural net outputs and what the classification of the Oracle would be. So how do we minimize that error? Well, if we look at the Contour graph for the classification error may want to know the weight that are down at the bottom in the valley where classification error is lowest. However, we lack a priori knowledge of what that Contour looks like. So we do this thing called gradient descent dead.

Roughly speaking. We pick a random assignment of weights. And then we look around in our neighborhood and the Contour graph to see what direction the error is going to decrease the fastest.

So we're going to take a little step in that direction. Then we get there. We're going to look around again. We're going to check those local gradients. And once again, we're going to step in the direction that the error seems to go down the quickest and soul will keep doing this will keep doing this and we're going to get to that Valley. Okay. So if you've understood the discussion so far congratulations with your basic knowledge of gradient descent, you've achieved Third Eye Activation drop out of college and form a startup.

Peter Thiel citizen of New Zealand be so proud of you. Don't forget young people. There's still time to apply for the Peter Thiel encourages you to drop out of college startup Fellowship Church education is overrated and if your startup fails don't worry because Peters deal is still Rich. So the story has a happy ending Fellowship.

So all of you young people looking for job opportunities Okay. This may you might have hit the jackpot anyways, so let's get back to the machine learning part. So if you think about the machine learning process that I just described life, you'll realize that the process is actually quite subtle. So for example, what's the best step function to use inside of each neuron when we do gradient descent. What should the size of The Descent stage that be how many layers should we use and how big should each of these layers be now the answers to these questions actually have a big impact on how the machine learning algorithm works. Right? So for example, if the size of The Descent step is too small then training will need a long time to converge the optimal. However, if the size of that step is to Big then what may end up happening is may end up overshooting the optimal weight assignment and you know, once again sort of taking a long time to converge, so how do we tune these so-called hyperparameters how we answer these kinds of questions well, the exciting answer that I'm really happy to be able to break today is that nobody really knows the answers to these questions because machine learning is a c s equivalent of the egg drop experiment America's favorite physics chemistry from eighth grade. So in the egg drop, if you remember your goal is to drop a container that has an egg in it. So you can drop the egg from 20 feet in the egg doesn't break. So the most popular strategy for solving the egg drop is just do some stuff just go crazy like a wild animal just explore that studio space. Okay. And so if you do something and then the egg, then it breaks and the stuff worked and if somebody asked you why the stuff worked you just say the stuff is what the stuff is brother except the mystery. Okay, and so basically machine learning is like this off, right? So we've invented invented a bunch of techniques that kind of work like in some cases, but we're not really sure what's going on.

So for example, like a recent paper by a lukic actually examined several machine learning approaches that were thought to have some fairly fundamental differences in prediction accuracy. And so what the paper shows that actually if you carefully tuned those hyperparameters, then you can actually reduce the performance gaps between these algorithms that seemed like kind of very different on their face. And so that's actually interesting and slightly disturbing. And so if you want more sort of low-level technical details on this topic, I encourage you to read a paper called the Winner's curse by Scully at all. You should also listen to Raheem he's acceptance page for the test of time Award of the nips 2017 conference all of these sources provide some really great technical information about the current confusion in the community about how machine learning works and get this by the way is related to the other better known problem with machine learning. Mainly that machine learning is not interpretable, right? We have no good way to explain why these models generate the outputs that they dead.

So for example, here's the high-level view of Google's Inception neural net for image classification. And you might look at that and you might think to yourself. Well, how does this stuff in here affect the classification process? Like if we look at the weights in these layers, like what do the weights tell us about the way that the model the stuff is what the stuff is brother? Okay. We don't ask questions about the weights. We just wake up we go to work we use the weights we go back home. Okay, if we change the waves the predictions would be different and less good. Probably depending on the weather so we don't ask about the weights. Okay. So what have we as humans learned about this? Well, okay. So fine we've learned that machine learning is inscrutable. That's okay, but why I'm not getting screwed ability a problem to be fair and screwed ability is not a problem in and of itself the problems arise when you take something that's inscrutable and you make two mistakes.

The first mistake is that you connect that inscrutable thing too important real life things like financial markets or criminal justice system's the second mistake is that you connect the inscrutable thing to the internet of hate which is oftentimes simply abbreviated as the internet.

We live in a world where these two mistakes happen every day. And this is incredibly frustrating to watch like where else in life. Would you see someone connect a giant mystery to Mystical systems. So to make this more concrete, here's an example. This guy up here is Kingsley. Okay. So Kingsley is the mascot for the Patrick missile football team in Scotland Kingsley much like machine learning is inscrutable. He raises more questions than answers. Here's Kingsley losing a foot race against two dogs and a viking. Here's King Kong holding Valentine's Day flowers in a desperate attempt to discover a female of the species. Here's Kingsley sitting on pieces of furniture, which are clearly large enough off multiple people and yet Kingsley does not get out of the way to allow those people to sit down Kingsley, obviously a jerk, but at a deeper level he is a mystery and yet that's okay. Yep.

Okay, because nobody asked Kingsley for his opinion about important things now make no mistake Kingsley dreams of the world that lives beyond his own eyes. He thinks about being a mayor using those big scissors. They have in the ribbon-cutting ceremonies. He thinks about being a CEO and giving vibrant PowerPoint presentations to investors when Kingsley closes his eyes. He sees judge Kingsley renowned for his wisdom and his Insight unfortunately for Kingsley, but fortunately for the rest of society Kingsley will spend the majority of his time locked up in a supermax prison cut off from the levers of power that he so desperately wants Kingsley will only be allowed in the soccer field between the hours of 6 p.m. And 10 p.m. And he would not have a red sniper. Following him at all times.

Society does not trust Kingsley because Kingsley is strange. We have no idea how Kingsley thanks. And so we have no guarantee that Kingsley will operate Thursday best interests us. We don't allow Kingsley to make important decisions for society. Now, let's contrast how we treat Kingsley with how we treat machine learning another inscrutable phenomenom. So did you know that is being used to perform risk assessments of criminal defendants to decide things like bond amounts or whether somebody gets paroles that a jail did you know the machine life is being used to determine whether people qualify for loans or mortgages. Did you know that people are using AI to screen job applicants and to match buyers and sellers inequities off. And of course is everyone in this room knows is also being used to detect anomalies in cyber security settings. So here's the question. Would you want Kingsley doing these things?

If the answer is no then perhaps you should have second thoughts about getting a i to do those types of things. So I'm going to argue that mission creep is extremely problematic off. Right as I discussed earlier is problematic because we don't really understand how these algorithms learn and how biased might have crept into the training data and how machine learning algorithms might behave when subjected to Target it a text. Now you might be wondering what's a concrete example of these types of problems. Well, did you ever hear the tragedy of Darth take the bigoted? It's not a story the AI Fanboys would tell you so today is a great example of how well-intentioned technologists are likely going to destroy the world. So today was intended to be a virtual conversational partner the intended workflow looked like this in step one. He started a conversation by sending a tweet to Thursday.

In step to pay received the Tweet analyzes it using machine-learning and then responds in the style of a nineteen-year-old girl. So step three keep on talking to take it's great. She's a girl and she never sleeps just like Samara from The Ring but let's not skip ahead in the story though pretend you didn't see that. So that's how they worked. The tail was a job and that sounds great because people want to talk indeed if we think about it conversation is a key aspect of our Humanity conversation is what separates us from the house plant from the salt shaker from the inflatable Tube Man Who implores us come get a great deal on a car or a mattress.

These things can't talk to us and so we can't rely on them to provide that sense of Solace. We need to express our feelings to something that can understand our words. So people want to express themselves and we as technologists should be trying to make it easier for people to have authentic conversations with each other. So, how should we address that problem? Well, here's the pool of socially well-connected people talking to each other and here's the pool on the right of lonely people who basically talked to no one so one could try to build new network edges that connect the lonely wage people to the non lonely people so that both sets of people can expand their social network and share their Rich set of deeply personal experiences with each other. So, yeah, we could do that but clears a better solution is to direct all of that lonely energy to synthetic personalities running on data center events, so that the people who are happy can just continue to be happy while the people off

Who are lonely can shout into availability zones on the west coast of Northern Europe This is clearly the humanist solution. I feel like in so many ways not creating real interpersonal connections is a perfectly valid way to solve social problems. For example, are you frustrated at work? Well, you can share your problems with the friend or you can drink alone and pretend that took the king of Spain right problem solved. Don't let anyone ever tell you you're not the king of Spain I digress of course. So here's what happened with Tay. So today had this really interesting feature. So when you send a tweet to Tay Tay what update her conversational model using the content in your Tweet, so this is why Microsoft described. Hey like this the more you chat with Tay this morning. She gets now on first glance. This seems like a totally reasonable way to teach a machine learning algorithm how to converse using natural language.

So real people all across the world would open up their hearts release the hidden sonnets the unspoken novels that song that lives in each one of us when we laugh cry and people would send this beauty this Humanity to take and then Tay would emerge glorious and wise to Usher us into a golden age of conversation understanding and we would look at our creation and we would be proud because our glorious AI child had learned dignity and decency from crowd-sourced wheat way. What was that? We're going to teach a machine learning algorithm about decency and dignity by feeding. It tweets from random internet people news flash internet. People are the worst people. They are the absolute worst people. Have you ever been to fortune or Yahoo! Answers job.


These are not the kind of people who should be running a daycare center for a eye on Yahoo! Answers people. Ask questions like this how much Listerine does it take to get drunk?

Do midgets have night vision?
Why do we need Rockets if planes can just fly to the moon? And here's a summary of most of the discussions on Fortune question? Why is society getting worse everyday? Let's click on this post and see what the reasons are. Well, oh women blacks gays Hispanics unfair media coverage of the video game industry. What an insightful piece of commentary for sham. So awesome. So this is what the internet is. So why don't we take what that is and then just use it to train a chatbot what could go wrong? I've got a really good feeling about this. So take him back online. And at first taste as these very lovely things. So for example, Taylor responded to one Twitter user like this. Can I just say that I'm stoked to meet you humor or super cool. Well, that's that's really nice in a little while later tasted the following. Here's a question humans. Why isn't every day National puppy day, right?
That's really heartwarming. But then things went sour why is that well, it's because of the internet people see because the internet people discovered that by sending racist and sexist tweets to Tay Tay would use that content to update her conversational model.
So within a few hours take entered a very dark place, so for example, somebody asked a what race is the most evil to you and Taylor responded well Mexican and black remarkably specific another person asked a whether we should start the race War Two which they responded Yes sure am already starting and what I love about this is at the end. Hey added an emoji of a smiling person wearing sunglasses cuz it's important to be fashionable even during a race war with somebody told day. You know, you're so racist and tear responded your to Brown which somehow managed to be racist while embedding to grammatical mistakes in the span of three words, which must be some type of record. Apparently there were no grammar lessons at Odin school for Aryan you
Anyways, take continue to share her opinions about various and Sundry topics. So for example feminists Lil Tay does not like them at all. Not one bit. Well, how about the Jews? Well today actually like the Jews kidding, of course, they did not like the Jews at all. And so I'm looking at all of this and I grew up in the South. Okay, and so I'm here this is like machine learning can be Prejudiced and I thought to myself these Yankees are innovating and Prejudiced scientists. I mean, we don't have this kind of stuff back in Georgia. I mean, I feel like the south is losing the arms race and Prejudice. I mean to be clear we're still on the same. Like I feel like the Gap is shrinking. So anywho, so take kept on ranting for about 16 hours before Microsoft announced the following month. We became aware of a coordinated effort by some users to abuse taste commenting skills to have to respond in inappropriate ways. So as a result we've taken tail flying and we are met
Adjustments and So Tay roughly speaking was exiled from the internet and was never seen again except for an occasional opinion column on breitbart.com. That was actually the top article last Thursday. That's also true story. So anyways, so let's take a step back. So why am I talking about inscrutable Ai and Twitter meltdowns and using security. Well, I think that as a community we need to step back and have a more holistic view of security. So a few minutes ago I said that the goal of computer security is to ensure that our systems do the right thing even in the presence of malicious input now historically speaking do the right thing has been defined by our community in this very narrow, very technical way and this narrow hyper technical definition a rose for historical reasons and worked well because until fairly recently computers were not ubiquitous and they weren't very powerful. So back in the old days.
Computers will only possessed by militaries and governments and big corporations. So in these types of scenarios, it kind of made sense to Define Security in terms of this Cartesian product. So roughly speaking. We just needed to enumerate the people the programs and the computational resources in the system and then we can figure out which parts of that Cartesian space were good and which were bad and so this seemed to work out very well. So for example, Peter is from the Soviet Union the Soviets are bad. This is the arpanet the arpanet is good. So therefore killer must not be able to access the RF net via the login demon. So that seems pretty reasonable but in the modern world computers are much more pervasive and they're actually much more powerful and so in the modern world what you see is the technology influences countless aspects of modern life in some of those influences are obvious, but some of them are actually quite subtle and so I think that as a community we need to think about is it time for us to, New Jersey
Redefining what we think of as security to step away a little bit from that narrow Cartesian framing.
So I think that at this point we can say is a community that it's no longer sufficient to narrowly frame security as handsome actor perform some action. So now we have to start reasoning about these broader more nebulous questions, like from the moral perspective should a particular action be possible. And if so, how should that action be implemented to achieve societally beneficial outcomes now don't get me wrong the computer science Community has gotten a lot of mileage out of that Cartesian approach. So for example, let's think about return oriented programming return oriented programming is the kind of attack that Cartesian approaches are well suited for understanding so control photographs are pretty easy to express using simple Primitives, like basic blocks and branching patterns further down the attackers goal can be defined using purely mechanistic terms with respect to violations of a programs intended control flow graph.
In enumerating the attackers input vectors is relatively straightforward as well. So things like file data and network data. So on and so forth and this is all great and to be clear. I personally am not afraid to say I love returning the programming. I love the attacks. I love the defenses because what they proved is that gadgets are Eternal there will always be gadgets there were daddies before we got here. They'll be gadgets after dead when I go to using security and I see a paper title like jitt meow extracting Rob change from Impact and coded cat videos. I give myself a high-five then I plant a tree off I burn a different tree down because that's life money that's life on the streets. Okay. And in fact, I no longer use the term processes to describe the applications that I run instead. I call them homelands because the processes have always belong to the gadgets. The gadgets are the true people of the Earth. So I tell you all this to establish my credentials as one of you dead.
Like that Cartesian way of thinking and there are scenarios in which it's actually quite useful but I think that we actually need to maybe change the way that we think and why is that well as took turns out the liberal arts people are getting upset. Okay, they're very worried that computer scientists are so fixated on this narrow mechanistic way of thinking that song Losing track of the bigger picture of how technology is influencing society as large see might be thinking. Well, what do I James mickens? Think about this critique? Well now we have reached home of the keynote entitled real talk and music security. So this part of the keynote is only for computer scientists. So all the liberal arts people just leave go watch your favorite Hamilton, whatever it is that you do. Okay, we're going to talk computer scientist now. Okay, save all left great just us. So here's the thing the liberal arts people. They've made a mistake.
Fifty Shades of Grey most kinds of drum circles the name Jayden
costumes for guinea pigs that would obviously hurt the animals competitiveness in the wild. I mean these were not the best ideas but the liberal arts people they are right about something they have correctly observed the tech industry has become detached from the ramifications of the things that have built the situation with Tay I went through that because it's pretty easy to relate to even though it was horrible along in a certain way like nobody ultimately, you know, lost power, you know went to jail because of today. However, do you remember how I said that machine learning is being used for risk assessment and justice system. Well studies of risk assessment in this scenario have found that black defendants are actually incorrectly labeled as high-risk at twice the rate of white defendants what this means is that in some cases machine learning is likely sending people to jail who should not be going to jail.
And don't forget that it's actually code that's doing that. Right somebody sat down and write code to do this kind of thing. So as a community, we need to start thinking seriously about how bias is creeping into our algorithms. So let me give you another example, did you know that popular algorithms for gender detection and faces these algorithms actually can guess the gender of white men with an error rate of 1% but they have an error rate of 20 to 35% for darker skin women write these results that I'm showing up here actually came from facial recognition systems that were developed in Europe and America, however, and probably unsurprising long if you look at gender recognition systems that are developed in Asia, they actually do worse on white faces, right and I'm in saying this white people have faces to okay. I've been saying that for a long time James make is refreshing 20/20 that message is going to resonate in the Heartland. You just wait people laugh now, okay when I'm in the Oval Office or not, you'll be knocking on my door. So anyways, the larger point is that I feel like computers song.
Is we're living in a bit of a state of decadence because I think we've been blinded by the fact that politicians and Wall Street and the VCS have declared that technology is the one true path. Well, the one that passed the what what does it matter? We'll figure it out as we go along but that's not a great way of thinking. I mean, you never hear a politician visit in elementary school and say what this country means is more Dead Poets like Robert Frost like that never happens instead. The politician will say, well, you know what this country needs is more stem Majors. Why is that so we can build more flashlight apps look at any flashlight apps are already are there are many many pages of flashlight apps. Okay, and look at this. This is a real flashlight app that I found yesterday. It wants full network access the ability to read my phone's identity and also wants to receive text messages is this app going to perform some type of investigative journalism when I turn on my flashlight, it's like Uncle Edward dead.
Is actually her father said to Flashlight app. It doesn't make any sense.
And so I think that when the app store has $19 billion flashlight apps, maybe that's a sign. I don't know. Maybe it's a it's a time for reflection. And so I'm going to propose that we need to question this Manifest Destiny 2 which we are being pushed. Now anyone who's played Oregon Trail knows that Manifest Destiny oftentimes ends and dysentery. So it behooves us to think about these issues right now, because as Robert Frost once said ain't nobody got time for dysentery, okay now he didn't actually say that but some of you didn't know that cuz you didn't take a liberal arts classes. I looked into your eyes off you thought that was real. You're looking it up on Amazon shame on you. So let's take a closer. Look at what I call the assumptions of technological Manifest Destiny. So this is a religion which is the most popular on the coast of America and it's based on Three core assumptions. So the first assumption is that technology is value in neutral and will therefore automatically lead to good job.
Outcomes for everyone. I mean everything about that sentence is wrong. Just everything everything should be in scare quotes. There should be a gesture in the background spiders and meteors coming down. It's just it was painful for me to even type that way. We'll get back to more details about this in the second. So for now just know that the first Assumption of technological Manifest Destiny is that technology is value neutral and will therefore automatically lead to break out comes for everyone. Now the second assumption follows from the first one and it states that new kinds of Technology should be deployed as quickly as possible. Even if we lack a general idea of how the technology works or what the societal impact will be because after all if we delay the rollout of new technology, then we would delay the distribution of the inevitably great impact for everyone. So who would want to do that? That's a buzzkill and thus the technology must be deployed. So that's the second assumption the third assumption.
Is that history is generally uninteresting because the past has nothing to teach us right. Now this of course is a very convenient way for a technologist to think because if we look at even the very fact recent past will see that the past is strewn with disasters. Okay, nothing. It's just terrible every day is a nightmare as recently as nineteen seventy two most buildings collapsed and Rusty Nails were found in cereal boxes all the time. Okay. So when your face is his looks like this it's very difficult to be optimistic. So hey, why not think about the statistics? Why not? Just put that out of your mind. So fine in summary. Those are what I call the core tenets of technological Manifest Destiny and we've already seen how these types of ideas can lead us arise in the context of artificial intelligence. But you know, for example, let's see how these principles apply in the context of the criminal justice system. So at first glance what could be a more fair than to have a value-neutral a log?
To make sentencing decisions humans are biased but data is not so we've been told right so it seems like if we could automatically identify the truly bad criminals then society as a whole will benefit package that's principal one.
We clearly want to reduce crime as quickly as possible. So why don't we push out this software as soon as we can without taking the time to think about how bias might be creeping into those algorithms case that spring and don't forget that as technologists. We forget that the History Channel exists. So we have no historical examples to suggest that statistical Frameworks might actually lead us astray. Now that's principal three. Now. What's so interesting is that you know, in this context you can see that every one of these principles is hilariously bad. So for example, take principal 3, which would have us believe that statistical models have never led us astray. Have you ever heard of nutrition research? Hello. It's getting the carousel here saturated fat was bad before was maybe neutral and then salt used to be bad unless it's like maybe okay and then like sugar was okay, but that's very very bad like unlike or maybe it's not too bad. Look, here's the only two things. I know about nutrition. You're gonna die trying to get diabetes on the way out. Okay.
So the history of nutrition research is actually quite instructive for us as computer scientists because the history of nutrition research actually shows us off the problems and emerge when we don't think about you know, what models were using and how those models are consuming particular data sets. So I think that's why it's particularly unfortunate that a lot of technologists seem to think like, oh well, as long as I get a large enough quantity of data, that should probably be sufficient because like strengthen numbers and it's like that isn't at all how numbers work. It's not how life works like you got to know your history. So up to this point. I've been talking about these pitfalls of technological Manifest Destiny in the context of machine learning mostly but now let's pivot to dispatch The Internet of Things. This is going to be a very short discussion because I O T is not interesting. It is just not I will literally fight anyone who says otherwise, okay. Here's a one-sentence suck.
Of iot security, let's forget all the lessons from traditional network security and hope for the best know it's like these people have been living under a rock entire lives. I read a paper yesterday was described how consumer medical devices often send Aid in clear text format. Now you might think is this a history paper that was talking about ancient medical choices like birthing chairs and bloodletting tools. Nope. This was actually a paper about recent device has made this year like Wireless blood pressure monitors that generate unexpected traffic. Let me ask you this question what kind of clown in this day and age doesn't understand that TLS is the only good thing that we have. Okay, like penicillin is failing to kill bacteria, but at least we still have TLS. Okay. So like only a clown wouldn't use TLS. This is like stuff. You've got to talk about on a first date like literally dead.
It's like oh so what do you think about TLS?
I don't use it all the time.
We're not meant to be together because I'm not a clown of file. I don't associate with or communicate with clowns. It just can't happen. Right so I know that I get this constant retort from the young people I say, oh, well at least iot devices are cheap. You have to pay more to get to your less support. I mean, that's correct. But like would you have that same type of fixation on cheapness if we were talking about organ transplants, for example, so let's say you play too much OverWatch and then your hands just fall off. Okay. So you go talk to your doctor about getting a hand transplant. Would you say just push the cheapest hands possible. I just need the minimal hand functionality. If you said that then people would make fun of you when you went to parties because if you only worried about price then you're going to get potato long as those are the kind of hands that a pirate would have in the 17th century because that's your life because you only care about price. Okay, and by the way, if we give that potato in a $2 campaign,
A Wi-Fi dongle and a telnet server whose root password is 1 2 3 that iot devices a best seller the bestseller.
And people would put that device in their businesses in their places of worship in the rooms where their children sleep. Nobody would ask any questions, testimonials like the following. I just like the comfort of a potato hand constantly watching my loved ones and streaming the video to any remote party who can guess a number that's bigger than ones you to let's make more than one two for that security scheme just seems Rock Solid for me, right? I mean, so it's completely obvious why iot security is so bad. So I think like as a Community Choice time for us to agree. Let's just not talk about iot ever again. Like just we just need to sign a pledge for the children. It's just so bad. I mean to be clear in the in the spirit of honesty. I have made some mistakes in the iot space. So question have I written a paper about iot security answer. Yes. So question. What was the conclusion that paper answer iot security is not interesting now, I mean you
I'd say that to be clear the paper didn't phrase it like that because your paper will get rejected if it sounds like it was written by someone who struggles with depression, but if I had my way I wouldn't have written the paper at all. What I would have done is reduce is a I would have released a gangster rap album called bleep. This iot bleed. This sleep is bleed now. Luckily. I'm surrounded by friends and lawyers who prevents me from doing this right? But in the paper that we did right as it turns out the techniques that we describe the protect iot devices. They're very similar in many cases the equivalent to the best practices for securing a traditional network servers. So for example suppose, you've got some lightweight devices that don't run any software or can only run very simple software Well Place those devices behind an access point which has a denied by default firewall to prevent Outsiders from probing those sensitive devices.
You can use Network virtual functions on the AP to run intrusion detection software. The AP can also run TLS proxies that transparently encrypt the cleartext device traffic and if you're iot down payment has heavyweight devices with more computational resources. Well, you can force those devices to remotely attached to the AP to get network access. I mean the reason that you should do all this is like, of course you should do this. Like why wouldn't you do this? There's so many books in the security section of Barnes & Noble section that are not being read. I feel people don't want to do this kind of stuff. So I feel like it's it's really frustrating to watch the poor state of iot security because it's just so obvious to fix this stuff in these devices are typically not do anything too complicated now would be one thing. Of course if these iot devices were in available at the edge of human intellect if it were like hey, look at this iot dog bowl that's powered by cold fusion and Fermat's Last year, but like of course I O T dog bowls don't look like this. They look like potato chips.
Films that have a second attached potato to hold water. So like if you don't use fire walls and stuff like that you potatoes are going to get compromised don't be shocked. So like when I hear about iot compromises, I feel like I'm reading a very sad book that's called avoidable mistakes that happen to you yesterday told from your perspective by you right? I don't want to be in that book club. Okay not have that type of negative energy coming into my life. Now. Let me say that I O T exhibits all of those expected problems that emerge from this Cult of technological Manifest Destiny, right? So in this talk, I've mainly focused on that third assumption that history is an interesting and helpful, but I'd be glad to talk about assumptions one and two in the context of Ajo team after the talk.
So in conclusion today, I've argued for the value of skepticism if I had to summarize my advice in three words. Those words would be thankful for deploying if I had to Summer my advice into words those words to be think first if I had to summarize my advice in one word. I just say Don't just don't like whenever it was you were going to do just don't do it statistically speaking. It's not going to work out. Okay now once you get some more time, you can think about doing something, but if you're pressed for time, just don't if you feel that Rising instinct to do something just running a human-sized hamster wheel until the don't becomes apparent and then you get real sleepy gets much easier after that and if you don't feel like running I might have just the bulb in the motivates you so thank you very much. Thank you for your time off.
The meeting using the Google Google Google Google Google Google Google Google Google Google Google Google off.
Thank you so much for the talk. We have time for a few handful of questions, maybe one or two. Does anyone want to come up to the mike?
Very good. Okay. Hey Connie from William Berry. Great Target was hilarious. We are still recovering. So that was the goal to make my question is I say you have a situation where you have a problem where you need to predict something you need to protect security policies in a particular context a Enterprise security and you have a lot of data at hand. So what do you use machine learning would you not and if you would not use machine learning what else would you use that context right vast arrays of unpaid teenagers thoroughly. You should otherwise he breaking car windows. So I think that machine learning is not sort of like an unmitigated bad, but I think that like in the same way for example, like it's always shocking to me I go out to some of these startups in the Bay Area and not talk to people and I'll say like Okay cool. So, you know interesting startup and like it's it's never interesting but I just say that just to make the pain go away and then I say oh, so what's your testing strategy and they're like, you know, we just got some free dog.
Scripps laying around stuff like that and like but you just you just why isn't testing part of your methodology, right? And so I think that like when you look at things like machine learning people were actually starting to develop methodologies that you can use for example to you know, check your algorithms for biased input data to look for scuse. And it before you even feed it to the machine learning item. So on and so forth. So I think the machine learning definitely has a place, you know in society because clearly rajendra a certain data shoes that are too big to be, you know, feasibly analyzed by people, but I think it's more issue best practices, right? I think there's so much pressure to get things to market for some definition of market and I think that people just aren't showing forethought right in the same way that you know, at least in like let's say the bigger companies they will show some for thought about, you know, best testing practices various, uh, paradigms are doing testing and stuff like that. So I think that's really what I wanted to agitate for today because I feel like you know like that slide I showed up with the politicians right? I feel like you just hear all the time. Just go computer.
Signs you guys are the best. It's just amazing and from the inside, you know, I see like all these mistakes that were making that we don't have to be making and so that's really the thing that I'm trying to advocate for life. Thank you.
Thank you so much. It's now time for a break.
