I received tenure in April 2019! See here to learn more about my transformation into a magnificent supernova composed of pure tenure particles. Now that I transcend space and time, it will be much easier for me to escape committee meetings that I don't want to attend. However, despite the fact that I now exist in seven dimensions, I still expect my male students to regularly interrupt lecture to ask questions that I would have answerd literally on the next PowerPoint slide if only I had been given a chance to spread my wings like the delicate pedagogical butterfly that lives in my heart.

James Mickens offers his timeless insights for free, because he loves you and he wants you to succeed. Please enjoy the undeniable masterpieces which are collected below.

Danger. Adventure. Cryptic error messages. These are some of the things that inspired me to become a computer scientist. I’ve been a legendary hacker for 98% of my life, but there was a brief period when I did not possess the sum totality of human knowledge. In those formative days, I made mistakes, just like you. I wandered the streets, coding for cheap thrills, dereferencing NULL pointers in front of the police and daring them to arrest me. I used exponential running time algorithms when linear alternatives existed, because you can still raise venture capital for an app that only does half of what it should do before it crashes and wedges your entire phone. I proved that P equals NP, and then I gave the proof to an extra from “Blade Runner” in exchange for what I later discovered was not, in fact, a lock of Nicolas Cage’s hair. I used object-oriented programming languages but only called static methods because abstraction is oppression and only The Man uses virtual function tables. I’ve lived a thousand lives, and I have the carpal tunnel syndrome to prove it.

When USENIX asked me to write about my experiences as a computer scientist, I immediately accepted the opportunity to bemoan the state of the world and settle old grudges with ancient enemies. I wrote six articles for USENIX, and these articles collectively form a breathtaking magnum opus on science, philosophy, and the reasons why JavaScript is horrible. Like a petty, sarcastic version of Neil deGrasse Tyson, I will explain the universe to you. Let’s science together, for America and for the children.

Note that I am also constantly disappointed by the weather, but at least the weather doesn't enable third-party cookies.
