Ladies and gentlemen Outback developers. Welcome to NBC
And now straight from the Mean Streets of Harvard we proudly welcome the man the myth the developer bought the legend James records.
All right, the mic on can everybody hear me good. All right, excellent. So long as I was so accurately introduced. My name is James mickens. And today I'm going to talk to you about my life as a developer. I'm going to describe these some very deeply personal stories about how I struggle Hardware with software with poor internet connections. I'm in a feud with Taylor Swift right now. Okay. My life is a mess. And today. I'm going to open a portal into this nightmarish struggle because I think that she can relate to my suffering. So if you're like me you wake up sometimes and you say why did I decide to work in technology? Why didn't I study the humanities and the obvious answer is that if you saw a Humanities than modern society has said that your life is worth noting right? My self-esteem is far too fragile to deal with me being a constant disappointment to everyone who surrounds me right? So for example, consider job
Sky, right. So he majored in philosophy. He's fluent in three languages. He has excellent communication skills and most importantly he loves you for who you are. Okay, even though you have flaws because those flaws ultimately make you special lead to personal growth. Okay. So what does society say about this guy? Throw them in a dumpster? No job for this guy? Okay in contrast, let's consider this abominable snowman. Okay, his resume has some pros and it has some cons. So on the pro side, he knows C plus plus off.
On the con side. He will definitely each year right he's going to start from the bottom up so that you'll be able to feel the pain as he consumes you so what does society say about this guy hire this guy? Okay. Well put him in a special room. You can't eat anyone or what does let him eat that guy in the dumpster. Nobody loved that guy anyway, right? So it's a mercy killing. Do you see what I'm saying? So literally off current economy would prefer to give money to an abominable snowman instead of a Humanities major every day. The Wall Street Journal has an article with the title, like computer scientist jobs, increased 15% of history majors routinely tortured by Pirates. Nobody cares. Nobody sheds a single tear. Okay, everything is being driven by these business walks and these algorithms right? This is why modern music. In fact is quite terrible. You see back in the day. Here's how you make an album, right? You take your band you go to a farmhouse or an abandoned castle. You drink some tea you read something.
Poetry and maybe take some cocaine things happen, whatever. I'm not going to judge people. But the point is that you were inspired by your creative Muse. Okay you inspire by the brightest fires of the human Spirit walk in contrast. Here's how Rihanna album gets made. You just import the Rihanna module, okay.
It's available on em p.m. It's a node module. You can just download it and run it yourself. As you can see in the bottom left-hand corner of the screen the inputs to the Rihanna function are a set of Studio musicians in a series of unoriginal chord progressions in about 128 beats per minute because that kind of thing sounds like the stuff that you want to dance to. I don't know it comes from your caveman part of your soul and the output is basically twelve songs off of generic music videos and a minimum concert ticket price about $75. So this is what happens when you live in a world that overemphasizes algorithms. Now, you might be thinking to yourself James you've stirred something up in me. You've inspired me. I'm going to go out and become a musician. Okay. I'm going to grow my hair long and we're cool leather jackets and create music that comes from the heart and I would say that's really great way for me to hear but cut your hair you need to eat. Okay, don't be crazy. All right, you need Healthcare. I don't want you to get a paper cut and you have to go die in a ditch cuz you can't afford to buy antibiotics. Okay, so just think about this month.
I care about you. Okay, I care about you and some of you may come from socialized countries. Will Health Care's free I come from the land that has a lot of freedom but not actually Healthcare. So that's off a little bit awkward baby steps. We're kind of getting their basically paper cuts are a big problem. So anyways, this is the real reason that I work in technology computers are okay, but I really just need to earn enough money so that when the Mad Max World becomes reality I can afford to buy one of those cars that has the Bendy dudes on it because I feel like having dudes on bendy pole is going to be a key metric for success in the year 2025 one Society has killed all the people who studied romance languages. And for those of you who are actually listening. Please go to my LinkedIn profile and endorse me for having dudes on Vin Diesel's.
There's no rush and then endorsement. I just need to do this by the time the year 2025 rolls around so thank you for your help. So anyways, I am speaking of Mad Max. I'm actually glad to be here in Australia. I do have to admit though. I was a little bit afraid to come here because you know from the outside Australia is portrayed as this crazy larger-than-life type place where dangerous constantly around the corner. So for example, I did a little research and I discovered that in Australia, they're unmarked holes everywhere. Okay, you just you're walking around what happened to Jason unmarked whole we don't talk about Jason anymore. So I'm not actually sure how common these things actually are. But I think that Australians are actually very amused by Australia's reputation and I think that they like to exaggerate the danger of Australia to Outsiders. So, for example, I have an Australian friend. This is true in his his name is Ryan. I've actually changed dead.
His name to protect his innocence and also I'm not going to show you Ryan's real face instead. I'm going to show you a photo of paranoid Hugh Jackman with a mullet. I feel like this photo really captures rhymed attitude quite well. So I do a Google Hangout with Ryan I say, hey, guess what man? I'm coming to Australia and Ryan says, that's great, but don't forget the rules control the night.
And so I'm kind of shocked when I hear this. I'm like Ryan. What is the route and he says kangaroos made they hang up by the petrol station so they can trample on your car. The Rue cannot be contained is evil the room must be destroyed by the way. Welcome to Australia, right? That's what I always loved about all these sort of descriptions of the country. It's like things are really crazy. But we're so glad to have you here. So often Brian actually continued and he said by the way, most of Australia is constantly on fire take a look at this map here city city fire off as far as the eye can see select that red eye of Jupiter. But right here on Earth. Welcome to Australia, by the way, when you put on your shoes, be sure to watch out for the shoo spiders. I said man, we do all these shoes spiders. What's your shoe spider? So my friend says here's what you gotta know about spiders in Australia the shoes off.
Order the size of a car.
Vikas border is the size of a house.
And the house water is the size of a tiny Speck of dust so it can float inside your rear and trample on your brain.
By the way, have you had an assault like this?
So this point I'm thinking trying to stop telling me all this stuff. I'm going to go to Australia. I'm sure that everything's going to be fine. And I'm happy to report that. I've only seen three sarlacc pit since I've been here way that feels very exciting to me. I think I'm going to be okay. So anyways, one thing that amused me actually is I was talking to Ryan was that Ryan talked about Australia in the same way that mongodb users talk about mongodb. Do you know what I'm saying? Like mongodb users will tell you these insane stories about mongodb and you'd think that all these stories would end with mongodb being uninstalled and destroyed from space, but somehow people continue to use mongodb and apparently have a great time. It right. So this is why I think that anyone who performs devops for mongodb should actually speak with an Australian accent. So for example instead of saying,
Mongodb queries don't always return all matching documents. You can say sometimes Dad shows up drunk to work and that's just the way it has to be.
Instead of saying that mongodb can return still versions of documents. You can say in the at back time is the fluid and subjective concept. Look at this didgeridoo here with didgeridoos Have No Visions.
Instead of saying the manga DB can return garbage data from rights that never should have occurred. You can say on Thursdays mongodb replaces every fifth bit in your database with an angry Komodo dragon.
So, I don't know I guess the whole point of this rant is that life is tough life is tough. Sometimes your databases. I guess just have to be filled with poisonous lizards. This is the life that we've chosen an S software developers and I think it's actually tough to be a programmer. You're constantly surrounded by failure all the time your hard work and misbehavior software can crash users are always doing unexpected things in the middle of this chaos software developers are expected to constantly improve their output to produce more and more lines of bug free code every day. And so everybody has a different theory about how to improve developer productivity. You can use pair programming or wizard base scrum programming or agile. Cause play waterfall programming.
You can just buy a ton of monitor so that when people visit you don't know that you lost your virginity in a chat room, you can use emacs or Sublime. You can be a real hero and use notepad because fax highlighting makes you weak. Okay, and if your source code file doesn't fit in the note then your modularity sucks. But everyone I think who's a real developer think everyone in this room knows there's only one true metric for how good a developer is window placement. Okay. It's the only metric that counts window placement evaluate how well a developer places her application Windows within her desktop environment. So for example, look at this window placement here, it's amateurish. It's naive look at all the clumsy overlapping the poor use of negative space for God's sake. Look at this file explorer. I don't even know what directory is open to this is insane. Now, let's consider the window placement of a professional development.
Now you're talking. Yeah papa likes it. Papa likes it. You got separate browser windows for different web searches, you're performing. You've got multiple open chat session with your co-workers and your personal friends. You've got a code editor. Boom. You've got a terminal window yearning for your input right there. You've got the gossip site minimized, but just an awful tab away. So then when your boss leaves your office, you can go and see what all people are doing in Hollywood. It's very exciting this my friends is the window placement of a professional development. Now as you'll know when you achieve this type of window placement you exist in a special plane of existence. It's like all of your senses are magnified and strengthened with a single month clicker alt-tab. You have 67 terabytes of information at your control. It's a great feeling but after about five days of having optimal window placement, you'll be doing some programs.
Then you'll see a little icon pop up in the lower right-hand corner of your monitor restart required for updates.
Oh God, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. No when you when you've achieved perfect window placement rebooting your computer is equivalent to a post nuclear Apocalypse in a civilization is completely destroyed. There's no language. There's no music. There's no dance. It's impossible to think about rebuilding your life in such a Barren world. And that's why when you've achieved perfect window. It's rebooting must be avoided for as long as possible. Right? So at first it's very easy to do you minimize the pop-up window and you go about your business but those messages from your boss and become more and more urgent. If you don't reboot your machine, this small child will never be loved by his parents and you're like, oh well, good luck with all the sadness. Maybe you should join the Army work out some of that anger cuz your father never loved you. I can't help you. I've got perfect window placement. I'm better than you in a very real sense. Okay, I'm sorry. I'm not I'm not sorry. Okay, this this is how long
Feel when you have that perfect window placement, right? So the days go on and you still haven't rebooted and at this point your machine starts to become unstable every one of your core's is running a hundred percent utilization. It's all kernel-mode activity files are being opened and closed and read and written for no reason at all. All of your Bluetooth devices are on your machine doesn't have any Bluetooth devices.
And at this point your machine begins to become physically hot if your machine is a laptop, it is uncomfortable to put on your lap. The fan is constantly blowing just hot sauce onto your lap. There is now a 97% chance that you are sterile. Your reproductive organs have been barbecued out of this plane of existence and sit to a spirit world. We're gonna form their own civilization free from the failings of traditional human society. And this all sounds very terrible, but there is a bright side. You've got perfect window. Okay, so that's still pretty cool. Now this point you've actually avoided rebooting for a month and your operating system is queued up 83 critical security patches, which fix devastating security holes in your machine, but you can't install it as batches because you refuse reboot your machine.
De 45 without rebooting you come back from lunch and you discover the entire Northwestern quadrant of your screen has gone. It just doesn't work anymore. It's like a migraine or just unfathomable pixels coming in and out of existence and it kind of sucks. But guess what still got perfect window placement and 3/4 of the screen, right? You've got to, I have everything open anyway, so who cares if you lose a quadrant, right? And so you continue about your day, however about an hour later things take a turn for the worse now long look in the Northwestern quadrant, it's filled with that kid who's always trying to escape from Japanese televisions and mirrors all of your input devices at this point have now been corrupted by Satan. So whenever you try to draw anything with mouse, you just draw pentagrams on the screen for no reason and then when you try to alt-tab into one of your perfectly placed Windows your machine just displays a quote from Nietzsche about staring into the void and so off.
Finally after Fifty seven days without a reboot your forced to reboot your laptop by physically taking out its battery and then throwing it into a river you wave. Goodbye to it like a lover and you think of all the great times that you shared your perfect window placement is now gone but it's not forgotten and much like a phoenix. It will rise again now, of course because you delayed all these security updates hackers are still in your credit cards. You can no longer afford a phoenix, but you get the point the metaphor is beautiful much like your window placement used to be
Now some of you might have noticed that the machine in this story is a Windows machine and I'm sure that some of you are thinking James you'd have fewer problems. If you used a Linux machine instead of a Windows machine and my response to that is have you ever used Linux Linux is never the answer to the question what life choice would reduce the number of life problems that I have right now, right Linux is very nice. If you like editing configuration files that are poorly documented. It's also nice if you want to desperately search for device drivers for your devices off and it's also nice if you want to in fact write those device drivers because they either don't exist or they do exist, but you can only download them from Eastern European websites, which may be fronts for human trafficking.
Linux is also very nice. If you like kernel mailing list, which frequently resemble a bar fight or an awkward family reunion, which your uncle unleashes the profanity fill a tirade about the proper use of tabs space and, Thursday for mats, and everybody has to listen to this because everybody is running the operating system called Uncle X. So hashtag uncomfortable Linux is also nice. If you'd like to use gooey managers, which are often a distinguishable from brutalist architecture from the 1960s any guesses which one of these is a is a window manager as it turns out. Both of them are window managers. The one on the right is Kong gnomed brutally and it will be available with the upcoming a boon to distro. So go out there and check it out.
So don't get me wrong. I actually like Linux. I have several machines that run Linux natively, but I do think that it's funny when I meet people and they say why isn't Linux more popular on the desktop in the answers at the real impediment to Linux on the desktop is Linux on the desktop, right? That's the big problem right people who say that Linux on the desktop is right around the corner or like members of a religious cult who keep Miss predicting the date of the world is going to end right? It's like the day the world's totally going to end on Tuesday. And then Tuesday rolls around there. Like I totally misinterpreted that cave Faith thing the world actually going to in next Tuesday. Then the Monday before that is when Linux on the desktop is going to become real so it should be cool. So anyways, I digress we're worried. Yes, so I just been forced to reboot my machine. So I reboot my machine and my operating system finally upgrades itself. I'm greeted with an empty lonely desktop and I begin a painful process.
As of reconstructing my perfect window placement, but soon I notice a different icon in the corner of my desktop. It says that the Adobe PDF reader would like to update itself. Now this notification raises a very disturbing question. Why would my PDF reader ever need to update itself? Here's what I need my PDF reader to do it display page PDF documents. That's it. Now, you know that the rest of this list is blankness.
It is the absence of additional list items write a PDF reader should be very simple because displaying a PDF document is a Timeless operation, which never V wires an update. It should be like the plus sign right? You would never think to yourself. What's 2 + 2? Hold on. Let me update the plus sign. I just need to download about 48 megabytes a new plus sign semantics. Okay, that's cool. The update is done and now two plus two equals the color Shamrock green. Wow, that's so amazing. It's a plus sign off for the modern generation. It's not your parents plus sign right this of course is stupid and dump, right. So reading a PDF file should be very simple. It should never change. So why is my PDF always updating the reason if you allow me to answer my own question because I've thought about it is that the Adobe PDF reader has an infinite number of features and new features are being added every month.
Second, right? So is it allowable by the laws of physics from a PDF reader to add multiple digital signatures to my PDF file and then I can add comments to the passengers and the PDF file that I find interesting in an annuity my PDF file with an embedded video and then encrypt the entire PDF files that after the PDF files been automatically uploaded the cloud only my very best very special friends can read it. Is this allowable by the laws of physics. Yep. Is this allowable by the laws of human decency know right? So I was talking about this topic the one of my friends and he said that all these features of their money because a lot of Enterprise customers use these features, but if you're a corporation uses all of these features, what is your business model? Okay. Are you in the business of Ridiculousness? Right? Let me give you life advice. Okay, if you're protecting your mission-critical data using encrypted PDF files in the cloud the Russians already know what you're doing. Okay, they weren't fooled by Thursday.
All just hot knife through butter very hot knife. Very cuttable butter. Okay. So Adobe Reader sort of cracks me up because if you think about it represents the weaponization of complexity. Everything has to be a platform. Now, it has to enable this vast constellation of experiences and feelings. It's ridiculous. PDFs are supposed to be simple right off his my mental model that I think is shared by lot of people for how PDFs are created in used somewhere. There's a monk sitting at a castle his face illuminated by candlelight. This monk has an idea an idea that he wants to share with the world. He goes to his closet. He takes out a single Scroll of sheepskin paper. The Sheep's name was Steve. We all love Steve even though we eventually turned his skin in the paper here in the novelty sweaters. It was a complicated situation but Steve understood he was a hero there were no tears from Steve. Anyways, the month takes the skin of his friend Steve writes down his great idea.
Moog is employed by a consulting company that produces completely meaningless white papers about technology.
3D printers result in more 3D things being printed big data is bigger than you think unless you already know what the adjectives big means. There will be 27 kajillion devices by the time you finish reading this Senate basically just take the up into the right graph and label the actions whatever you want and now you can write for Forester. That's basically how that works. So anyways, this is the fact of life just the way that God intended. So the monk takes his sheepskin paper scans it he has all the content digitize a PDF is born into this world that PDF is posted on a website I downloaded and I open that PDF with the ideal PDF reader I only need for simple commands page down page up zoom out and zoom in that's all that I need for my PDF reader. So, let's see what kind of tools I get from the modern Adobe Reader Jesus Christ. Look at all that. This is what Tony e
Dark scenes when he's looking through the eyes of the Iron Man suit, right you're bombarded with all these colors and these icons and expanding menus. I mean, look at all this stuff I can do I can optimize and stamp and measure and read me that I can put Javascript in my PDF. That one's too easy. Even for me to make fun of okay. I'm just going to use that as an exercise for the reader. Right but one that does actually seem cool is that I can put accessibility features into my PDF file so that people who are blind can read the PDF using a speech synthesizer that actually seems pretty neat. So I decided to click off accessibility icon and see what happens. I'm taken to a website which tells me I have to pay money to make my PDF file accessible. That's actually kind of messed up right? So should it be ability to create accessible PDF see part of the free Adobe software? I can just imagine Wolfgang von Adobe or whatever sitting somewhere and executive office counting all the money then an angry mob of Blind Pig.
Show up at his office and they knock the desk off his lamp and the lamp off his desk and he says now you're playing in our world right now to be clear. I'm not encouraging blind people to form gangs of vandalism. Okay, in case any of you are news reporters. Don't tweet this SnapChat or whatever the kids do these days. I'm just saying that Adobe PDF reader has a ton of features that most people don't need I think and the result of that adobe constantly has to update itself to add new features and Patch the old ones. So by the way, this is a pretty uplifting talk, huh? Just a list of things that I hate. You're lucky the organizers only gave me 30 minutes. Otherwise, I'd be up here Fidel Castro style, you know our 15 T2, nanovm are a tool of capitalist oppression. The workers deserve em, three double x large from each according to their ability to each according to their poorly understood understood workload characteristics, which may not in fact need the most expensive VM right San Francisco belong to the San Francisco.
New variety who used Ginger vacation to push out the original San franciscans. Anyway, what was I talking about? Yes, so I was talking about things. I don't like it was very easy for me to recover my train of thoughts are so what don't I like well one thing I don't like is that I feel like there are too many software Frameworks these days. So back in the good old days. There was just one software framework and it was called Lipsy way back in the good old days your application consisted of things. You did yourself other things you did yourself and that was it people were hard-working and they knew the value of re implementing the wheel. Okay, there was no sharing of higher-level Frameworks if you didn't like lipsi then you go home because that's how things work around here. Our little town has everything we want. We got a restaurant. We got a package on we got a place where you can sit and we got Lipsy. Okay, that's all that we need. But now these developers these days they're so new fangled and when I hear about all this talk about Thursday,
Framework in that framework. I just want to cry big Angry tears, right? So whenever I go to Silicon Valley, I hang out in the coffee shops. I always hear the developers talking about Frameworks. One of them says hey, how's the upcoming long? The other one says? Oh, it's going pretty good. Pretty good. We just migrated from AWS to Cloud. I owe that I owe they have 17 tens of availability. They also thought of data centers located in outer space the center of the earth and the Louvre how exciting so it's pretty awesome. If I do say so myself, I store all of my application data in kitchen sink, which is a non-relational no sequel semi relational. Json document table store.
It supports all possible schema types natively. It only has indices if you wanted to and if it only has in the season everything becomes an NDC, so it's just very fast. It's like super convenient. Then of course the support continuous testing and development. I set up an instance of you to real MVP which simultaneously executes my post commit Hooks and also sends me an inspirational quote of the day from a famous movie star or an older European gentleman who lived in the 17 hundreds and I also put all my configuration data inside of Gandalf. The other person says, oh I've heard of that you mean Gandalf the Grey know getting off the white it's totally incompatible with Gandalf the Grey the data format change from XML the Json, it's just a big mess a big mess. Anyways, though. Of course, my application needs a monitoring inspection to ensure that all of my code is running properly now for that I use drunk in front of me from high school as a service.
This is actually a crowdsourcing platform that harnesses the power of all the losers that I knew from high school. These people are constantly monitoring my infrastructure in sending me irritating late night text messages about the lack of infrastructure. They also text me and they asked whether they should stay in their current relationship and then I say no but then they say but I love her so much then I'm like we should try to make it work and they say but it hurts so bad. I don't know what to tell them cuz they've been in this place. Sometimes it's not healthy anymore. You know what I'm saying? Anyways back to my infrastructure. So I collect my mobile payments using triangle and I collect my web payment using Bill buddy and I detect payment fraud using Palm know which allows me to look at my financial statements and see if any of them are being used by Pokemons associate with financial crime such as Russian mob Syndicate Pikachu and Kim Jong-un needs a concurrency Bulbasaur.
So the developer on the right finishes the description of the application stack and he says so what do you think now if this world were Fair the developer on the left would transform into some type of zombie and devour the developer on the right? Unfortunately, we do not live in this world. So we suffer what we must so I hear all these conversations at the coffee shop and I'm not really conclude that I should probably learn some more about these new technologies. So I open up my laptop and I try to do some research on the internet. However, when I use the wireless network the connection is just really bad right? It's horrible. I'm trying to open up a tutorial on YouTube. I'm not getting 1020 P. I'm not even getting 720p. I'm getting 7-piece. Okay, I don't even know this was an option. I have 3 and 1/2 pixels. Okay. One of them isn't even parallel to the Horizon. It makes no sense. This is how a salamander perceives the world salamanders can.
Not understand tutorials on large-scale web services. I feel like I'm not getting a lot from this tutorial.
So I make this sad sad noise of defeat and then I noticed that the only person in San Francisco who is older than 35 is now leaning over my shoulder. This man turns to me and I can tell that he's extremely wise and knowledgeable and and he says I noticed that you were looking for something on the web. Maybe you could find the same information at a library and I say I'm not trying to learn about the causes for the French Revolution. I need to learn about a web protocol that was invented five minutes ago. Do you see it on saying right when you take the internet away from you as a developer? I'm literally ruined as a person. Okay. It's like you Stripped Away all of my fundamental dignity. Okay. I'm getting two kilobytes per second over this wireless connection. I tried to load my Facebook page. I got something from a CSI episode. Okay, this is repairable. Okay, so my timeline my newsfeed and my friend list have all merged into something that supports neither time nor news nor friends. Okay. I can't live in a world like this month.
Okay, so can you spare me some sympathy? Can you try to understand where I'm coming from?
And the man closes book and he leans over and he says that's not really what I would came here to tell you today. And then he takes off the mask and it's a time traveling grace hop, what a convenient anecdote with which to me that I talk time travel is real Grace Hopper has access to it, and she's using it to deliver common-sense wisdom to the confused technocratic Elite. My name is James Mickens. Thank you for your time.
